2022

____
1.Make massages can be send between ros and unity.
Message from unity, TF, and from ros, motor_cmd, can recive by each devices.

____
1.Set agv to initial pose.
Let agv turn towards the first point of path, and move forward untill reach the target.

0622
1.Make AGV finish all pathes and found that there's something wrong in P controller. When AGV move to each point setted by the path, must reset some parameters before going to a new point. When the arror correction output added to each wheel speed, I forgot to add "abs", that makde Left:[l+(+e) l-(+e)] Right:[l-(-e) l+(-e)] leads same result...


0623
1.Tried to make slam works.
It can be lunch by pakages "nav2_bringup slam_toolbox" whitch refer to unity_slam_example. But no mater which way to creat the map, it all ran with an error that saied time stamp of TF "map" and any other TF were different!! There was already /clock topic before slam node launch. This leads the error mention above. I tried to fix this with make slam node useexternal /clock, but not fix this yet... Move forward first and leave this here. This won't influences avoidance works.
2.Add markers on 3d visualization.
Publish topic "path" and "forward_looking" that shows path and scanner ROI.
marker msg is setted by point list and color list, but it can't be setted with array like way. It must setted index by index. This make performance efficiency slow!! Add a flag 'new_pose' to make marker stick to agv on visualize panel.

0624
1.reach_dist setting
Try to make the setting of reach_dist(how far to stop the car before reach target) are self adjustment for any car. If it's set to the largest distence that car moves, once the car move farther than anyother step, this value will be stuck at there. I hope this value response fast but not influences by noise. Let reach_dist a array with 3 indexes. When getting new distence, append to this array with two indexes. After sorting the array, drop the first and last element to keep the length of array consistent. The canter value are used for reach_dist. As this, reach_dist will be damage only if two or more noise receive, the same, it will recovered after two normal values.
2.unity car punch.
The components of agv are setted to "ArticulationBody", that forms part of a Physics articulation. Therefore, it cannot be move by changing it's position. The way to move AGV we usually do is let the wheels rotation, but when we need to displacement agv for testing control algorithm, there is a function call "AddForce" that applies a force to ArticulationBody. Whith this function, we can simulation moving AGV by hand.

0625
1.Rebuild control algorithm.
The orignal controller was making the agv towards target but not follow the path. But the ideal controller is make the agv follow the path and back to the path fast and smooth when agv not on it. Normally, people use PID control, but kp ki and kd have to setted by try error when we don't have mathematical model of our system. In addition, kp ki and kd may need adjust when system is changed. Therefore I tried to design a new controller that can preformance like ideal PID controller. First, I analyzed the path of a agv which controled by ideal PID controller. The angle between agv and target path are static whan error (distance between agv and path) is larger than a value, and the angle decrease when agv get closer to the path. Second, write a function that caculate the ideal angle correspond to the error. Last caculate angle between agv and target path, and we can get 'fix angle' that ideal angle minus agv angle. But agv could be at left or right of the path, so we need to caculate the fix angle is postive or negative. After all, the simulation looks well, maby when agv fixing angle gose alittle too fast. Besides, when agv are hand moved and move exceed the target point, it will run forward forever. I'll fix this tomorrowXD

0626
The stable time of this controller seems not so ideal. But this can be fix well and immediately by decrease control period from 1.0 to 0.25.

0706
went_markers
publish a marker shows the path that agv gose through.
timeout stop
make motor_cmd node send stop command automatic if it dosen't receive data for 1 sec.
wait first data
the navigation node will run what ever it get TF from agv or not in the first. But this will cost the command navigation caculated are wrong and the agv still active according to this wrong command.
Adding a flag that check is the TF are received to solve this problem.

0714
add check_crush mark and stop the agv
create a new marker that shows the area for checking obstacles. The checting area angle is decide by the width of agv. Set the color of marker in purple if there is no obstacle in front of agv, and red if finding any obstacle.

find the gap agv can go thew
if there is only a simple obstacle on the path then it eazy to slove this. Just caculate offset angle that can avoid the obstacle. Calaulate lidar data from the offset angle to offset angle add the angle of agv width, if all the data langth between first point, then this range is save. Otherwise caculate next angle offset. But if more then one obstacles are there and has gap detween it, this will cost wrong path output.

polar coordinates
for lidar data, it express by polar coordinates. Therefore, I can caculate two point distance by sqrt(r1**2+r2**2-2*r1*r2*cos(n1-n2)). But for program efficiency, still transfrom Polar coordinates to Cartesian coordinate.

when diong those, the start and end point of the array takes so much time for me to make them correct. For both postive and nagtive range needs to be set carefully!!!

0718
the array save_arr mark the point that is save
to check is the turning ang is save or not, create an array first. When finding save angle, mark the angle which is not save, length between the point to first point in the range smaller then agv width, in the range. The save range for path must satisfy two condition, the length from first point in the range to anyothers are bigger then agv width, and no any point is marked non-save. But found that this can only deal with if there's gap between two obstacle. If there's another obstacle at back of the gap, output new path wont avoid it.

the orignal way to mark save_arr was  only check points in the range check this time. But this will make wrong output when the ovstacle is at out of the checking range. Thus, we check all points in these group of data.

inorder to reduce the caculation in the algorithm, caculate Cartesian coordinate of all points first.

when using save_arr, one way is set and update by booling, anther is add one to the index that is not save, and check is the index is zero or not. Cannot set the result of this time to save_arr or it will coverd the old result, must use logic "or" or just add to the old result.

finding the actual path
First new point, from save_arr point add another half check_ang angle to avoid hitting obstacle. Second point, form save_arr point add another agv_width/2 distence that perpendicular to the path.

make drew path function to update path data real time.

save the main path be the refer of the new path.

set the check_ang from static value, according to car width, to changed by distance between obstacle.

rewrite render in unity to make gray depth img become hex number in RGB.

send id, gray, hex in one topic and check sending frquence. indeed, it's three times then normal img.
then, create a reciver to handle this topic msg, sending to the topic it should be. The benefit it makes, the node receive both img and depth, it's make pcl2 edit eazier.









calculate new path








































